hello there video viewers i hope you're
doing well today so here's a video from
me to you and in this one
i would just like to tell you a story
because stories are great for learning
english and so
i've been looking for different short
stories that i could read to you
and what i just did today is i just
googled
um free short stories online
something like that and a few links came
up and i ended up on this website which
is called
comma full i don't know if you're aware
of comma full
let's have a quick look at it so it's
described as the largest library of
multimedia stories
comma full.com and on comma full
you can read and share fan fiction this
is like
stories written by fans not necessarily
published authors
stories poetry and comics in our unique
picture book
format so essentially what they've done
on comma full is they've found a way of
presenting stories
rather than presenting all of the text
which is the way you would read it in a
book right normally
that's fine in a book but for some
reason reading stories on a computer
screen
is less pleasant and so what they've
done here on comma full is they actually
break up the stories line by line and
each
line in the story has a little picture
and the and the text of that line and
then you just flick through each line
you'll see what i mean in a second but
it's quite good because it's
you know breaks the stories up sentence
by sentence and i kind of think
for for learning english and for
practicing
speaking skills presentation skills this
is quite good because
i think it's it's a good habit to try to
use pausing
and to break up your statements um and
to pause between each sentence
this i think is a good presentation
skill let's see
so the story that i've chosen from comma
full.com is called the mountain
it's by acnea that's the name of the
user who
who came up with this i think uh acne
wrote it
themself themself i don't know if it's a
boy or a girl
so i'm saying themself um acne wrote it
and um so i'm going to read it to you
now i'm going to read the story twice
the first time i read it i will just
read it without pausing i'll just read
it through
naturally without without stopping to
explain things
i mean so you can just follow the story
i hope you enjoy it
try and understand it even if there are
some words and bits that you don't
understand
then the second time i read the story
i'll break it down a bit more and i'll
explain a few things and maybe give some
comments
to help you understand it but first and
foremost just try and follow the story
okay what else another thing
what you could do is if you like you
could
repeat after me i do recommend that you
do that i mean obviously you just enjoy
the story first of all
but you could if you like pause after
each line
so pause the video and just repeat after
me and try and copy
exactly the way i'm saying it that could
be good practice for you
also you'll find the link to this story
in the description of this video
and you will then be able to you know
click the link and visit the story
yourself
and in your own time you could practice
saying the lines of the story too
you've got my version to compare it to
you could record yourself doing it
and then see you know compare your
version to my version and see if there
are any differences and then
work on those things okay so there's
lots of stuff you can do
but now let's begin the story this one
is called the mountain actually
just before we start i would say this
story actually it's not about a mountain
it's not about mountain climbing
i think the mountain is a metaphor which
comes up in the story
but just to get you thinking um think
about your childhood
what kind of child were you i mean
how uh what was it like for your parents
to bring you up uh were you a
cooperative child
did you try to do everything your
parents wanted
did you listen to them did you try to
make them happy all the time were you
sort of cooperative
well-behaved child or were you a child
who
probably made your parents lives quite
difficult just by doing your own thing
not always listening and um you know
stressing your parents out and stuff
like that because having kids can be
quite
quite challenging of course um
because you want your children to listen
to you you want them to cooperate
it can be quite stressful especially if
there are lots of children in the family
it's a lot for the parents to manage to
keep everything under control
and i guess some kids are easy to
control and other kids
um are less easy to control the easy to
control ones
maybe are being cooperative they're
making an effort to make things easy for
the parents but anyway i wonder what
kind of
child you were maybe a combination of
the two
i'm just saying that just to make you
think about this story a little bit
before we start reading okay
let's go here we go so the mountain
my mother said that out of all five of
her children
i was the easiest baby
i think what she meant was that i hardly
cried
rarely fussed and was generally asleep
which i guess was a good thing for her
as the fourth of five she had a lot to
deal with before she could get to me
so i made it easier for her
i kept doing it as i grew up
if one of my siblings dropped their ice
cream
i'd give them mine so they'd stop making
a scene
when someone had to sit in a middle seat
you can bet that's where my car seat
would be strapped
in fifth grade when clara gomez stole my
cookie from my lunchbox
i just shrugged and ate my carrot sticks
my nickname was montagnita little
mountain
because i was never moved never bothered
always calm
in seventh grade i broke my leg
but i didn't tell anyone for three days
i just gritted my teeth and hopped along
until my father found me crying on the
bathroom floor
he took me to the hospital and bought me
a cast we couldn't afford
and when the kids at school called me a
well you can guess what i did
in high school my little sister sophia
was getting picked on
by some boys i pretended i didn't see it
happen
but that night i switched out her too
small
uniform skirt for mine
she stopped getting teased
and i wore pants for the rest of the
year
when my college algebra professor lost
my test and made me retake it
i just nodded and did it
when i got cat called walking across
campus
i just looked down at the ground
and you
the first day you came up to me and
offered to buy me coffee
i was sure you were making fun of me too
so i stayed quiet
eventually you flashed me that blinding
smile and told me
guess i'll take that as a yes then
i think i said about three words to you
that first day
but i gave you my number
and answered when you called
at first i think you just thought i was
shy
but as the months went on and things got
more serious
you started to get upset when i didn't
tell you things
when i got fired from my part-time job
and started skipping lunch to afford my
textbooks
i didn't want to tell you because i knew
it would upset you
i was right wasn't i
you were so mad when you figured it out
here you yelled shoving money at me
take it i don't need it you know i have
a scholarship
you know my parents send me money take
the goddamn money
i just stood there
i'd never had someone yell at me while
doing something nice before
when you noticed how stunned i was you
softened your voice
please it it hurts me to see you
starving yourself
please take the money
for the first time ever i talked back
why
you laughed at me because i love you you
idiot
i took the money
but snuck most of it back into your
wallet that night when you were asleep
for most of the time we dated we never
fought
even when one of your friends tried to
tell me you cheated on me
i knew you hadn't the friend was just a
jerk
when he tried to tell me i just stared
at him
didn't cry or yell or demand proof
that freaked the friend out a bit
he kept trying to convince me but i
stayed so calm
he eventually gave up and admitted the
truth
later you told me you couldn't believe
how amazing i was
to trust you so much
the truth was i had no idea if it was
the truth or not
i just didn't react because i knew if i
did it wouldn't change the outcome
and i'd learned that staying calm in
situations like that
gave me the power
our marriage too had very few fights
if you didn't take out the trash like
you said you would
i did it
and when you noticed i'd done your
chores you felt so bad
that you'd do some of mine to make it up
when our children misbehaved i never
raised my voice or screamed or made a
scene
i just asked them what they did
and eventually they'd cave
our oldest told me once it'd be much
less scary
if i'd just shouted them like dad did
i figured i'd stay like i was
calm quiet a peacemaker non-reactive
for the rest of my life
but you changed that
you jerk
when you died
when you died it was like that frozen
mountain of emotional outbursts inside
me
melted all at once
nobody expected it when i started
screaming and sobbing
at the funeral my older brother tried to
take me outside
and i punched him in the jaw
i apologize later of course
you'd hardly recognize me now i think
it's a lot harder for me to stare
blankly now and take things
because i keep remembering you saying
stand up for yourself you deserve better
me more
and you're not here anymore to stand up
for me
or our kids
i don't know how to describe it exactly
what changed the moment you left this
earth
but it's like i was blue one moment and
read the next
hard as ice before i melted into a
hurricane
i was a mess for a year or two i think
before i managed to get everything under
control again but even now
i'm not like i was
i'm still calm and rational and think
before i speak
but if anything or anyone threatens our
children or their happiness
i know i have to be the one to protect
them
and as anyone who's gone mountain
climbing knows
the serene snow-covered peaks that look
so tranquil from a distance
are the deadliest
okay that's the end of the story
right did you like that let me go back
to the very beginning
of this story now
okay and i'm going to try and sort of
break it all down
or maybe i just need to refresh the page
that's probably a quicker way of doing
it
okay so the mountain right did you get
the idea basically it's about a person
i'm
i don't know i'm a i feel like the
narrator is female
it's a i feel like it's a woman could be
a man i suppose
but for some reason something's telling
me it's a woman i don't know i don't
know why that is
it could be a man like i said uh but
anyway let's let's say she
and so she grew up as a child to
be very well behaved to be very um
cooperative to help her mum i think
um and she had other brothers and
sisters who probably took her mum's
attention
her mum was very busy looking after
these other kids and so
our narrator decided that she would be
helpful
and that she would not make a fuss not
make any trouble
not cause any problems keep herself
quiet
keep her emotions under control
and that's how she grew up and that's
how she continued to live
and she met this person i'm assuming
it's a guy
and um he somehow managed to kind of
open her up or that
they they they've loved each other
she continued to be under control
all the way through their marriage it
sounds like a generally a happy
successful life
but then when her husband dies
she loses control and
even though throughout her entire life
she's had this emotional reserve or sort
of control over her
over her emotions losing her husband
meant that she lost
that and what was held inside came
exploding out
um and it manifested itself as
unexpected behavior like she got very
emotional
and screamed and cried during the
funeral punched her brother
and her life kind of fell apart but then
remembering things that her husband had
said
allowed her to get back to her
original kind of controlled emotional
emotionally stable
state but at the same time she was still
able to access
um her
strong emotions and feelings
okay it's not really not a kind of a
narrative but more just an emotional
narrative i think
interesting story um obviously
curious to know what you think of it you
can leave your comments
in the comment section now let's go
through the the story line by line to
kind of look at the language a little
bit and i think this is american english
there are a couple of moments where you
can tell it's american english so i
obviously i speak british english so i
will be
pointing out any differences for the
most part american english and british
english are you know
that the vast majority of the two
versions of the language
it's it's the same pretty much a few
little differences
which i'll point out okay uh all right
so here we go the mountain then
my mother said that out of all five of
her children
so this she had five children out of all
five of them
i was the easiest baby okay
fine i think what she meant was that i
hardly cried
this is interesting to note i hardly
cried now
um to cry hard and to hardly cry
to work hard and to hardly work hardly
as an adverb before a verb is a
minimizing
adverb it doesn't mean to do it strongly
it's quite the opposite so hard we know
like hard
to um you know
to fall hard to um do something
hard hard can mean tough or strong or
difficult
to run hard to work hard yeah work hard
it's like to work very seriously
but to hardly work so hardly
means almost none okay hardly means
almost none
so hardly work you know you've hardly
done any work
today means you've done almost no work
okay whereas you've worked very hard
today means you've done a lot of work
similarly
what she meant was i hardly cried means
i almost never cried
it doesn't mean i cried hard which would
be like crying really hard
loudly but i hardly cried i
didn't cry very much
i rarely fussed to fuss or to make a
fuss
fuss would be sort of problems
um complaining a lot maybe crying um
right so if you if you make a fuss
like okay an example when i
so i've got a daughter she's she's three
years old and sometimes she makes a fuss
for example if we want her to do
something that she doesn't want to do
she might make a fuss she might start
crying she might even
sort of have a tantrum roll on the floor
and cry or
put her head in the pillow or something
like that or argue or get angry
making a fuss okay or to fuss so
sometimes she fusses
like for example if it's time to go out
but she's not ready to go out because
she wants to play with her toys
she will start crying or or something
like that
you know three-year-old children that's
what they do
so uh i think she meant i hardly cried
rarely first meaning i did i
hardly ever made a fuss
and was generally asleep most of the
time
which i guess was a good thing for her i
guess it's kind of american english
although
lots of british people say this now i
guess
you see i'm even saying it myself now i
suppose would be
let's say more of a typically british
thing i suppose this was a good thing
i suppose you're right i suppose we
should do that i guess you're right i
guess that's a good thing i guess we
should do that
so i guess blah blah in american english
and i suppose i think
maybe in british english um
they say i suppose and i think in
american english too but we are less
likely to say
i guess that was a good thing in in
british english it might be something
like i suppose that would that's that's
a good thing
i think that's a good thing so i hardly
ever cried i was generally asleep
which i guess was a good thing for her
made life easier
for the mum as the fourth of five
she had a lot to deal with before she
could get to me
to deal with things she had a lot of
things to manage lots of things to sort
out
before she could finally get to me like
um
you know where is with children maybe
the kid needs food or
or or a hug or nappy change or something
or something like that or whatever some
problem
so this the mum had like to deal with
lots of things before she could get to
the daughter
so i made it easier for her nice
i kept doing it as i grew up so not just
as a baby but as
she grew up she kept being cooperative
and
thoughtful helpful to her mum
if one of my siblings dropped their ice
cream a sibling is a brother or sister
cream
see there one there so we use they
and their these pronouns when you don't
know if the person you're talking about
is male or female okay so in this case
if one of my
either if we don't know for it's not
important so i guess this person's got
brothers and sisters and if one of them
either brother or sister doesn't matter
which if one of them dropped their
ice cream okay
i'd give them mine so they would stop
making a scene
to make a scene to make a fuss
okay make a scene it's the sort of thing
that like making your first the sort of
thing that would
attract attention of people if you're in
the street and your child is making a
scene
your child is having a tantrum and
crying or something other people
you know oh dear and he's oh you know
stop making a scene
so i'd she would give uh the ice cream
she'd give
them her ice cream what a good girl
when someone had to sit in a middle seat
so in a car
you know the kids want to be on the
window seats and the middle seat
probably is the least popular seat when
someone had to sit in a middle seat
you can bet that's where my car seat
would be strapped
so the car her car seat would be
strapped into the middle c you can bet
meaning you can be sure basically
you can put money on it not literally
it's just an expression but you can bet
means you can be certain you can be sure
that something is true
you can bet that's where my car seat
would be strapped
in fifth grade so here's another
american thing
the years in school they call them
grades first grade second grade third
grade fourth grade fifth grade and so on
in the uk they tend to be like first
year second year third year fourth year
so we call them years and they call them
grades in in america
in fifth grade when clara gomez i don't
know who clara gomez is probably just
some girl at school uh when clara gomez
stole my cookie from my lunch box
i just shrugged and ate my carrot sticks
to shrug it's just like
do that with your shoulders like rate
lift your shoulders like that as if to
say well
there's nothing i could do really shrug
or shrug your shoulders
um i just shrugged and ate my carrot
sticks again what a good girl she didn't
make a fuss you didn't
cry she didn't fight
my nickname was montanita
little mountain is this spanish i think
so
and myanmar is in there too isn't it in
this story is that spanish i think so
maybe this is like you know in the usa
there's you know large hispanic
communities
maybe this is maybe the people in this
story are sort of like
uh sort of latin american
um because i was never moved never
bothered always calm
the little mountain in seventh grade i
broke my leg
but i didn't tell anyone for three days
like what really
you broke your leg you didn't tell
anyone for three days
oh my goodness this is really like
pushing it to the extreme
this is this child uh
is incredibly stoic i just gritted my
teeth and hopped along
really i mean i think there's a limit to
it you know it's
she's a very good girl she doesn't make
a fuss but i mean if you break your leg
i mean you you're well within your
rights to
say to the mum and dad excuse me i know
my brothers and sisters want their ice
cream
but i think i've got a broken leg can we
go to the hospital
um anyway she didn't do that
she just gritted her teeth to grit your
teeth is
when you put you you clench your jaw and
shut your teeth and
grip grit your teeth so um
clench your teeth or put your teeth
together like that
if you're if you're experiencing a lot
of pain you would grit your teeth
like that and she hopped along
hop is when you kind of jump on one leg
you're walking on one leg
hop hop hop
wow until my father found me crying on
the bathroom floor
he took me to the hospital and bought me
a cast
we couldn't afford a cast is a thing
made of plaster or you know when someone
breaks their leg or breaks their arm
you know if someone's had an accident
they've broken a leg or an arm
they would come back um they'd come out
of the hospital with a with a cast
it's white it's made of plaster i guess
or these days they may use another
material but it's hard and it covers the
broken
arm or leg uh while the arm or leg
heals it keeps the arm or leg sort of
protected and motionless
a caste okay he took me to the hospital
and bought me a cast we couldn't afford
so even though they didn't really have
the money for this cast he bought it
anyway this is america of course where
you have to pay for all
your health care and when the could when
the kids at school called me a
so a this is an offensive word
it's an
it's not a nice word in english
if the children are calling her a
a is someone who's got
like a
physical injury or maybe a physical
disability
that is probably permanent okay so a
it's it's really not a nice word
and so the kids were teasing her calling
her a
because of her broken leg so when the
kids at school called me a
you can guess what i did well let's
guess what she did she probably shrugged
her shoulders and
you know didn't really react didn't make
a fuss
in high school my little sister sophia
was getting picked on by some boys
to get picked on it's the sort of thing
that happens to children they get picked
on they get
bullied they get teased
i think tease is here in this story as
well
so to get picked on so sofia was getting
picked on
so to get picked on means when other
children say mean things about you they
say
nasty things to you they make you feel
bad maybe they make fun of you
um they might even physically do things
like sort of maybe hit you
or poke you okay it's when
usually older bigger children do bad
things to younger children
because it makes them fee because it's
fun for them but for the younger child
it's absolutely horrible
it's very common to get picked on at
school
so when her little sister was getting
picked on by some boys
she i pretended i didn't see it happen
i guess this is for sophia's sake so
sofia doesn't feel embarrassed but i
mean if
all right anyway she pretended she
didn't see it happen for me if if i was
getting picked on
i would hope my brother saw it and so he
would step in
but maybe the author the narrator of
this story
is trying to be a lot more stealthy
discreet and that night
it says i switched out her too small
uniform
skirt for mine so clearly it's this
school they have a uniform
and i guess sophia was getting picked on
because her skirt was too s
was too small
and so the narrator switched out her too
small uniform skirt
for hers so she swapped so she took
sophia's uniform skirt at night when no
one knew it was happening
she took sophia's skirt which was too
small and
replaced it with hers which was probably
the right size so sophia would look
normal
but the narrator couldn't wear her skirt
so she did it when no one was looking
you know
which i guess is sort of super generous
she doesn't expect
to receive any praise for it she just
did it secretly
so she stopped getting teased there's
that word to be teased
to be picked on to be bullied
when people make fun of you
and i wore pants for the rest of the
year here's some more american english
pants meaning trousers okay so she wore
trousers
in the uk we say trousers in the usa
they say pants
but in the uk our pants are what you
wear under your trousers
underwear okay so you wet you put your
pants on
and then you put your trousers on okay
in
in the uk whereas in in the usa your
pants
are the things you wear on the outside
trousers we call them what do they call
pants in america underpants
that's another question for another time
oh okay i've got to have to google it
what do americans call pants
okay this is from yahoo answers if this
is a decent
um underpants
i'm english and i generally call it
underwear underwear shorts
drawers um knickers
hmm underwear underpants
shorts okay that'll do
all right next uh when my college
algebra professor
i don't know why algebra maybe algebra
has got a capital letter here because
it's the name of the subject
at the school normally algebra doesn't
have a capital a anyway
when my college algebra professor is
it's in maths
algebra lost my test and made me retake
it
i just nodded and did it so the
professor actually lost her test
and because he or she lost the test the
narrator had to retake it now this could
be a massive problem that
you could make a huge fuss about this
you can imagine getting the parents
involved
you know i can't believe that the
professor lost the test and there's no
way i want my daughter to have to repeat
the test again
i think she should be blah blah you know
it could be a big problem but
she just nodded and did it wow
the the the patience and um
tolerance of this person is incredible
when i got cat called walking across
campus to get cat called
this is when say a girl is walking
across
the street or something men shout things
or whistle or something at a woman in
the street
and probably worse things they say sort
of sexual
things and stuff like that um it's
really not nice
at all it's totally horrible
i guess for women to be cat called to
get
cat called when i got cat called walking
across campus
i just looked down at the ground so she
didn't react
and you the first day you came up to me
and offered to buy me coffee i was sure
you were making fun of me too to make
fun of someone
right she thought that he was teasing
her
so i stayed quiet i guess this is like
university age now eventually you
flashed me that blinding smile
flash so flash you know flash like a
flash on a camera
a flash of light and you can flash a
smile as well
i can't do it very well to flash a smile
don't you sort of when someone does a
very charming looking smile at you and
it's like oh wow your smile is so
blinding so so brilliant and
attractive you flashed me that blinding
smile
and told me guess i'll take that as a
yes then
it's me attempting to flash someone with
us with a smile
not doing a very good job
anyway guess i'll take that as a yes
then
i think i said about three words to you
that first day
all right but i gave you my number what
were those three words
here is number here is number
uh this my number it was that the three
words
you call me i don't know what it was but
anyway
maybe four words here's my here is my
number
i'm joking uh i think i said about three
words to you that first day
but i gave you my number and answered
when you called
so there romance at first i think you
just thought i was shy
but as the months went on and things got
more serious you started to get upset
when i didn't tell you things upset in
english
you upset you can be upset because
you're sad
or you can be upset because you're angry
but it's basically when your emotions
get too much
and you might cry so if someone
is upset they might be upset because
they're very sad they might be upset
because they're very angry
see it could be either uh
you started to get upset when i didn't
tell you things that would be probably
angry and maybe hurt
that kind of upset but basically
emotions become too much
and often involves crying or
like expressions of anger or when
someone's emotions get too strong
they get upset right you started to get
upset when i didn't tell you things
when i got fired from my part-time job
so when she lost her job
and started skipping lunch to skip
lunches when you just don't eat lunch
you have your breakfast you have your
dinner but skip lunch in this case to
save money
i started skipping lunch to afford my
textbooks
in order to pay for her textbooks she
needed for university
she stopped eating lunch to save money
i didn't want to tell you because i knew
it would upset you
i was right wasn't i you were so mad
when you figured it out
so this is some american english here
mad
angry we would say in the uk but in
american english
mad yeah for us mad means crazy
but in american english they it means
crazy too
but it also means angry but it doesn't
mean angry in british english so
anyway you were so mad when you figured
it out also in british english we don't
usually say to figure something out
we say to work something out okay so you
were so angry when you worked it out
when you managed to understand what was
going on
here you yelled shoving money at me
again in british english we don't really
yell we shout
okay so yell in american english shout
probably in british english here you
shouted shoving
money at me so he's kind of like giving
her money like that in a fairly
sort of aggressive manner maybe
but being generous take it i don't need
it
you know i have a scholarship so a
scholarship is when someone
someone's university
education is paid for by someone else
probably because they're good at sport
often in american colleges
you get a scholarship if you are really
good at football or
basketball or something like that if
you're if you're really good at sports
maybe the college will pay for you to
take uh your
degree because you will be a benefit to
them
because there's a whole sort of
university sports scene is kind of
really important
and colleges like to have really good
sports teams
um i i don't know i don't know what
i guess there must be some sort of like
industry of
a lot of sports stars who become
professional sports
players go through the college system
there must be money involved anyway
so some people get a scholarship they
basically their education is paid for by
someone else
but usually by the university or by a
sponsor or something
you know i have a scholarship you know
my parents send me money
take the goddamn money okay
that's very american take the goddamn
money
it sounds like from an episode of suits
then you know that american tv show
suits tv show
you know the tv show suits
uh it's on netflix i think or something
yeah meghan markle was in suits
yes suits anyway it's about lawyers and
every other word is god damn
i want my god damn name on the goddamn
wall and uh
are you out of your goddamn mind
everyone's goddamn this and god out of
their goddamn minds and i'm
you know god damn i'm wearing a goddamn
suit and this
you know i don't know why where
everything's in goddamn black and white
here
and god damn it megan you're gonna you
know
what did you goddamn well say to the
goddamn queen
and so on and so forth so very typically
uh american stuff anyway where was i
take it you know my parents send me
money take the goddamn money
i just stood there i'd never had someone
yell at me
or shout at me while doing something
nice before i'm being really nice to you
[Laughter]
take this money thanks
when you noticed how stunned i was if
you're stunned it's like
you don't know how to react you don't
know you don't move you can't do
anything
stunned when i notice when you noticed
how stunned i was you softened your
voice
you started speaking more softly please
it hurts me to see you starving yourself
please take the money
for the first time ever i talked back
now this doesn't mean
this is the first time she ever
responded that she was just mute she
never spoke before
now to talk back um
i think in i think in british english
we'd say to answer back
and it means to to kind of defend
yourself when someone is saying
something against you you kind of
respond and defend yourself that's what
talkback means
it also means to just reply but in this
context it means to sort of
uh reply with defensiveness or maybe to
protect yourself
you know to argue a little bit so you
know
it hurts me to see you starving yourself
please take the money
and then for the first time ever i
talked back why
like why does it hurt you
and you laughed at me because i love you
you idiot
because i love you you idiot
i took the money you're damn right you
took the money
you goddamn right you did sorry i took
the money
but snuck most of it back into your
wallet that night when you were asleep
to sneak something in to sneak
s-n-e-a-k sneak snuck snuck sneak okay
you can sneak somewhere
which means you go somewhere quietly
without anybody noticing
like a ninja sneak sneak sneak i snuck
into the kitchen
in the middle of the night in order to
eat something from the fridge
okay to sneak out of your i snuck out of
the house
to go and you know hang out with my
friends
i snuck out through the window something
like that you can also sneak
something somewhere so in this case she
snuck the money back into the wallet
okay she's like ridiculously good purse
a ridiculously good
kind person it seems
um she accepted the money but she
actually snuck most of it back into the
wallet
that night when you were asleep so she
took the money but then sort of like
sneakily gave it back to him
for most of the time we dated we never
fought thought obviously
fight is the verb fight fought fought
for most of the time we dated we never
fought even when one of your friends
tried to tell me you cheated on me
to cheat on someone means basically to
go with another
in this case she's with him boyfriend
girlfriend and she
cheats on him means she sleeps with
someone else or goes with someone else
another guy right so even when one of
your friends tried to tell me you
cheated on me
so they didn't even fight then so who is
this other friend
probably some jealous person
who's like oh they're the perfect couple
i'm gonna
break i'm gonna break up their perfect
uh
couple um
ah the dream couple i'm gonna pop their
i'm gonna burst their bubble
and say uh you know tony uh yeah he's
been cheating on you
the guy's name's tony i've just decided
yeah
you know what i saw tony with someone
else
i think you need to have a conversation
with tony what what what
anyway he tried to tell her that
tony was cheating on her
and she says i know you hadn't the
friend was just a jerk
another bit of american english a jerk
it's just like a
hmm what would be the equivalent of a
jerk just like an idiot
not someone who's not nice and and
someone is stupid
it's just a twit um
uh an idiot i'm trying to think of words
that are not really rude
i think i can think of plenty of very
rude words
although i wouldn't say the word in
american english is a lot more
offensive than it is in british english
in british english it's not that bad
really but
yeah so be careful with that one uh he
was just an idiot let's go for an idiot
i know you hadn't cheated on me the
friend was just an idiot a jerk
when he tried to tell me i just stared
at him like this oh yeah tony's
i think tony's been sleeping with
someone else behind your back and she
just stared at him like this
seriously
didn't cry or yell or demand proof cry
what are you talking what do you mean
didn't cry or yell again like
what or demand proof how do you note
i want proof show me that show me the
photos
uh she didn't do that that freaked the
friend out a bit he was like
don't what don't you believe me huh and
the friend's like ah
annoyed this friend is a jerk
he kept trying to convince me but i
stayed so calm he eventually gave up and
admitted the truth no he is he is look
honestly okay it's not true
that's maybe what happened later you
told me you couldn't believe how amazing
i was
to trust you so much oh it's sweet what
a sweet story
the truth was i had no idea if it was
the truth or not
i just didn't react because i knew if if
i did it wouldn't change the outcome
wow incredible levels of wisdom from
this person
and i learned that staying calm in
situations like that
gave me the power oh
almost like a little bit um
what's the word for it almost little
little scary like cold
you know like uh
cold almost cold-blooded like i will
stay calm
i will keep my emotions under control
why because this gives me the power
our marriage too had very few fights
nice if you didn't take out the trash
like you said you would
i did it how reasonable how wonderfully
reasonable
if you didn't take out the trash more
american english here in the uk we tend
to say rubbish
not trash okay right
taking out the trash seems to be
something that causes a lot of problems
in marriages
i don't know why this is it's a flash
point in many marriages taking out the
trash
taking out the rubbish not in this
marriage if you didn't take out the
rubbish or the trash like you said you
would i did it
everything's fine and when you'd note it
when you noticed i'd done your chores
you felt so bad that you'd do some of
mine to make it up
oh when you noticed i'd done
your chores chores this is basically
housework again chosen
american english they definitely use it
a lot in american english
but do we say chores in british english
chores
not so much we tend to say housework
he says there it is look chores in
british english um
everyday work around the house okay well
look
we do have the word in british english
but we don't use it nearly as much as
they do in american english we tend to
use
how housework but chores is nice words
stuff you've got to do around the house
when you noticed i'd done your chores
you felt so bad
that you do some of mine to make it up
if you make it up to someone
it means you do something to kind of
compensate them or to repair something
like in this case she did something for
him
and so he feels like he should do
something in return
to to compensate her for what she did
to make it up to him let me make it up
to you
so it'd be like um oh thanks for doing
me that favor the other day i really
appreciate it look let me make it up to
you and
i'll take you out for lunch something
like that
if someone does does something for you
then you need to make it up to them
by doing something for them in return
so you felt so bad that you do some of
mine to make it up oh what a perfect
marriage
when our children misbehaved all right
behaved badly
i never raised my voice like shouted
or screamed or made a scene if you raise
your voice
you know don't make me raise my voice
with you just
to when your voice gets louder don't
raise your voice to me
or screamed okay shout is just
say things very loudly hello shout
scream it's got two meanings i think one
meaning is just a noise
like if you're in a horror film
someone's coming after you with a
screwdriver
ah scream but also you can scream
like shout like help that also means
scream
scream for help so scream can either
mean ah or it can mean
shouting especially if you're shouting
at very high pitch
okay when our children misbehave i i
never raised my voice or screamed or
made a scene
i just asked them what they did what did
you do
and eventually they'd cave so to cave or
to cave in
means to crumble like there's a picture
of a cave here but imagine that the cave
crumbling the roof of the cave cave
giving way and it collapsing so to cave
in
means to kind of collapse so if a child
is like
um you know you're having a fight with a
child
and you say what did you do
and the child just goes i'm sorry i
didn't you know
i told a lie or something like that it's
a cave
to kind of collapse when the
their position uh
when their position kind of collapses in
the sense that they just admit that
they're wrong
or they stop arguing they lose the
argument
our oldest our oldest child told me once
it would be much less scary
if i'd just shouted them like dad did
so apparently her her kind of
cold-blooded
approach was quite chilling quite
frightening like
what did you do i don't you know i will
find you i will hunt you down
like a sort you know if liam neeson was
in your family i
i know if you've lied i've got a
particular set of skills
i figured i'd stay like i was okay so
she didn't change
calm quiet a peacemaker non-reactive
for the rest of my life but you changed
that
emotional you jerk
she's angry when you died
emotional
when you died it was like that frozen
mountain of emotional outbursts inside
me
melted all at once so the
her emotional reserve
was like a frozen mountain and when he
died it melted and
all the emotions came out nobody
expected it when i started screaming and
sobbing
at the funeral sobbing means crying
like that
my older brother tried to take me
outside come on come on come outside
come outside you're making a scene
i punched him in the jaw
drama the jaw
this is your jaw well it's not your jaw
that's my jaw
but you know what i mean the jaw is the
lower part of your
mouth the part that goes up and down
right your jaw i punched him in the jaw
i apologize later of course i should
hope so
you'd hardly recognize me now i think
meaning you wouldn't
if you saw me now you wouldn't think i
was the same person
like is that you
you'd hardly recognize me you'd almost
you almost wouldn't be able to identify
me
it's a lot harder for me to stare
blankly now and take things to stare
blankly
like that if someone says you know
excuse me you took my parking space
stare blankly and not argue it's harder
for me to stare blankly meaning it's
harder for
her to keep her emotions in and just
take things the emotions come out
because i keep remembering you saying
stand up for yourself you deserve better
me and more
right and you're not here anymore to
stand up for me to stand up for someone
is to defend someone
to support someone so if someone is
being attacked you would say oy excuse
me what are you doing
don't leave her alone i'm standing up
for her
or our kids i don't know how to describe
it exactly
what changed the moment you left this
earth
but it's like i was blue one moment and
read the next
hard as ice before i melted into a
hurricane
melt into a hurricane don't know melt
you know is when ice becomes water
can you melt into a hurricane i suppose
so
i was a mess for a year or two i think a
mess like disorganized
no order everything was all over the
place emotionally
disorganized out of control
before i managed to get everything under
control again
even now i'm not like i was meaning i'm
different
i'm still calm and rational and i think
before i speak
but if anything or anyone threatens our
children
or their happiness i know i have to
i know i have to be the one to protect
them with my particular set of skills
and as anyone who's gone mountain
climbing knows
the serene snow-covered peaks that look
so tranquil from a distance
serene means quiet and peaceful
snow covered covered in snow peaks the
tops of the mountains
the serene snow-covered peaks that look
so tranquil
tranquil and serene tranquil means quiet
right here we go tranquil calm and
peaceful
right
tranquility and serene
calm and quiet there's synonyms there
you go
serene tranquil where were we
these serene snow-covered peaks that
look so tranquil from a distance
are the deadliest there's a slightly
menacing undertone to this
don't don't mess with this woman
basically
she will find you she will hunt you down
and she will kill you
there you go that's the end of the story
all right well that's the end also of
this
um that's the end of this video thank
you for paying attention all the way
through that
i hope you learned some english from it
and as i said you can find the story in
uh you can find the story by checking
the link there
in the description and then you can read
the story as well and i do recommend you
trying to
say the story out loud repeat it a few
times it's good practice
reading out loud just practicing
delivering the lines
it's it's very good practice thank you
very much for watching this now um
are you subscribed to my videos if
you're not then subscribe don't forget
to
smash that like button as well you don't
have to smash the like button you can
just click it or tap it
no smashing or smacking or slapping
necessary but do subscribe to the
channel you know because then you'll be
able to see all my other videos when
they arrive and all that sort of thing
also listen to my podcast
luke's english podcast is available
wherever you get your podcasts
also i have an app which you could
download free
on your phone at the luke's english
podcast app
there you go and with the luke's english
podcast app you can get the entire
episode
archive every single episode of this
podcast
and also loads of app only episodes in
the categories section there let's have
a look at that
app only episodes these all these
episodes which are only available in the
app
have you heard them would you like to
listen to them
um so just search the app store for
luke's english podcast
app and you'll be able to download it
free and that's how you can get
all of those episodes okay all right
then thank you so much for watching
and for listening and i will speak to
you again in some form but for now it's
time to say goodbye
bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye